# CineOnto
CineOnto is an ontology that defines some concepts of the world of cinema. This ontology will define some concepts such as Movie, Director, Actor and Character. It also define the relationship between each entity. The CineOnto is based in the concepts and properties of FOAF ontology (http://xmlns.com/foaf/spec/).

## Concepts
  - **Woman**: A subclass of `foaf:Person` to represent a woman.
    - **Actress**: A subclass of `Woman` representing a woman that performed some character in some movie.
  - **Man**: A subclass of `foaf:Person` to represent a man.
    - **Actor**: A subclass of `Man` which represents a man that already performed some character in some movie.
  - **Director**: A subclass of `foaf:Person`. A `Director` is a person that already directed some movie.
  - **Character**: A character of a movie. Subclass of `CreativeWork`.
  - **Movie**: A subclass of `CreativeWork` to represent a movie.
  - **Role**: A role on a movie. A role is a subclass of `CreativeWork` made to link character, movie and actor/actress.

## Properties
  - **directs/directedBy**: A subproperty of `foaf:maker` and `foaf:made` to represent the relationship between a director and a movie.
  - **interprets/interpretedBy**: A subproperty of `foaf:maker` and `foaf:made` to represent the relationship between an actor/actress and a character.
  - **performsOn/performedBy**: A subproperty of `foaf:maker` and `foaf:made` to represent the relationship between a actor/actress and a movie.
  - **onRole/onMovie**: These properties represent the relationship between a role and a movie.
  - **hasCharacter/characterOnRole**: These properties represent the relationship between character and role.
  - **hasActor/actorOnRole**: These properties represent the relationship between actor and role.
  - **hasActress/actressOnRole**: These properties represent the relationship between actress and role.

For all classes and subclasses of `foaf:Person` we use the following **data properties**: `foaf:firstName` and `foaf:familyName`. For the Movie entities we have: `foaf:name`, `foaf:duration` and `foaf:year`.


## Project Files
  - **cinema.owl**: The CineOnto ontology on OWL format
  - **simple_cinema_database.pl**: A simple cinema database that can be used to test CineOnto. This database is on prolog format, which means that we need to parse this file before we merge the database with **cinema.owl**.
  - **parser.py**: A parser to parse the **simple_cinema_database.pl** into an single OWL format file.
    - **cinema_database.owl**: A file generated by **parser.py**. This file is the prolog database file converted to OWL format.
    - **cinema_full.owl**: A file generated by **parser.py**. This file is the **cinema_database.owl** merged with **cinema.owl**
  - **sparql_query_samples.txt**: Some SPARQL queries examples that can be made.


*Enjoy it! ;)*


## References
| Name | Link |
| ------ | ------ |
| FOAF Ontology | [http://xmlns.com/foaf/spec/][PlDb] |
